Update eph documentation (#20)
pyscf/pyscf.github.io: source/user/eph.rst

.. _user_eph:

**********************
Electron Phonon Matrix
**********************

*Modules*: :mod:`eph`, :mod:`pbc.eph`

Introduction
============
Electron-Phonon (eph) Interaction describes the coupling between the electrons and the nuclear degree of freedom. First order eph matrix elements are most commonly used to compute electron/phonon transport properties. PySCF supports first order eph matrix calculation by either Coupled Perturbed Kohn Sham/Hartree Fock (CPKS/CPHF) or finite difference. In periodic system, only Gamma-point calculation with FFTDF is supported.

A minimal example of analytical eph matrix calculation is as follows::

    from pyscf import gto, scf, eph
    mol = gto.M(
    atom = [['O', [0.000000000000,  -0.000000000775,   0.923671924285]],
            ['H', [-0.00000000000,  -1.432564848017,   2.125164039823]],
            ['H', [0.000000000000,   1.432564848792,   2.125164035930]]],
    basis = 'sto3g',
    unit = 'Bohr'
    )

>     # Note that this is a pre-computed relaxed molecule

Reviewer: So the method is for molecules? I have always associated phonons with the solid state.

If the geometry needs to be relaxed, as for vibrational analysis, one should note this also in the main text

Author: The pyscf.eph module itself is meant for molecules and pbc.eph is meant for crystals. And right, the concept of phonon originated from the solid state community and is only meant for lattice dynamics. I don't know if the quantum chemistry community has a similar jargon for the second quantized coupling Hamiltonian. Perhaps we need a different name for the module @gkc1000

Reviewer 2: One can use it for molecules, although it is not widely used. It is basically making the harmonic approximation when computing non-adiabatic coupling. 

@yangcal I agree that we should state that this needs to be done at the equilibrium geometry to have any physical meaning.

Author: sure, I'll add more intro on this part

    mf = scf.RHF(mol).run()

    myeph = eph.EPH(mf)
    ephmat, omega = myeph.kernel()
    print('eph matrix', ephmat)
    print('phonon frequencies', omega)

Alternatively, one can compute the matrix elements using finite difference::

    from pyscf import gto, scf, eph
    mol = gto.M(
    atom = [['O', [0.000000000000,  -0.000000000775,   0.923671924285]],
            ['H', [-0.000000000000,  -1.432564848017,   2.125164039823]],
            ['H', [0.000000000000,   1.432564848792,   2.125164035930]]],
    basis = 'sto3g',
    unit = 'Bohr'
    )
    mf = scf.RHF(mol).run()

    ephmat, omega = eph.eph_df.kernel(mf, disp=1e-4)
    print('eph matrix', ephmat)
    print('phonon frequencies', omega)

Spin symmetry
=============
The eph module in PySCF supports mean field methods including Hartree Fock and DFT using either spin-restricted or spin-unrestricted reference.

Analytical eph matrix elements
------------------------------

The module-level ``eph.EPH(mf)`` constructor can infer the correct method based

> on the level of symmetry-breaking in the mean-field argument.  For more explicit

Reviewer: Symmetry breaking usually means a different thing, right? E.g. you can UHF that does not break spin symmetry i.e. is equivalent to RHF. Same for GHF.

Maybe replace "level of symmetry-breaking in the mean-field argument" with "type of the mf argument"?

Reviewer 2: yes, replace with "type of mean-field argument (e.g. restricted, unrestricted, etc.)"

Reviewer 3: This exact language occurs in a number of other places, originally introduced by me in the CC docs, so it'll have to be changed elsewhere.

control or inspection, the respective classes and functions can be found in
``rhf.py``, ``uhf.py``, ``rks.py`` and ``uks.py``.

For example, a spin-unrestricted calculation can be performed
as follows::

    mf = scf.UHF(mol).run()
    myeph = eph.uhf.EPH(mf)
    ephmat, omega = myeph.kernel()
    print('eph matrix', ephmat)
    print('phonon frequencies', omega)

Finite difference
-----------------

The finite difference kernel function ``eph.eph_fd.kernel`` can handle all the supported mean field methods above.

Output control
==============

Filtering noisy frequencies
---------------------------

> Due to molecular geometry not fully relaxed or simply numerical noise, diagonalization of the mass-weighted hessian can potentially yield unphysical vibrational modes, eg, imaginary frequencies or non-vanishing frequencies which should be strictly zero. PySCF by default filters out modes below 80 cm-1 and remove imaginary modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagonalization of the mass-weighted hessian can sometimes yield unphysical vibrational modes that correspond to imaginary frequencies or to non-zero frequencies which should strictly vanish. These unphysical modes may arise either from the use of not fully relaxed geometries, the use of insufficiently accurate density functional quadrature, or simply numerical noise. By default, modes below 80 cm-1 are filtered out in PySCF; note that this also includes any negative frequencies.
```

One can specify a different cutoff frequency (in cm-1) when constructing the EPH object as follows::

    myeph = eph.EPH(mf, cutoff_frequency=60)
    ephmat, omega = myeph.kernel()

> Similar to keeping imaginary frequencies, one can set keep_imag_frequency to True when initializing the object::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, to keep the imaginary frequencies, one can set keep_imag_frequency to True when initializing the object::
```

    myeph = eph.EPH(mf, keep_imag_frequency=True)
    ephmat, omega = myeph.kernel()

Matrix element representation
-----------------------------

> The eph matrix are computed in the atomic orbital (AO) basis by default. One can also request them in the MO basis as follows::

Reviewer: matrix is computed

Reviewer: request it

Introduction
============

> While the motion of the electrons and nucleus is always coupled in molecules and materials, it is usually assumed that the wave function of the two can be treated separately under the Born-Oppenheimer (BO) approximation. The approximation hugely simplifies the computation of wave function and properties but can break down when the vibronic coupling between the two gets considerable. Traditionally the evaluation of vibronic coupling often involves complex mathematical treatment and is often unrealistic for the large systems. However, if one were to relax the BO approximation and assume that electrons experience the moving nucleus as a perturbation of the potential, one can approximate the full Hamiltonian by Taylor expansion with the adiabatic states at equilibrium and the quantized vibrational modes. This approach is widely used in solid state to compute electron/phonon transport properties (see :cite:`giustino2017eph` for more discussions).

Reviewer: This is too heavy.

```suggestion
Because nuclei are much heavier than the electrons, one usually assumes that the Born-Oppenheimer (BO) approximation holds and that the full wave function factorizes in the electronic and the nuclear wave function.
This approximation hugely simplifies the computation of the full wave function and its properties, but the approximation can break down when there is significant vibronic coupling.
Traditionally, vibronic coupling is evaluated with complex mathematical machinery, which often yields unrealistic results for large systems.
However, if one relaxes the BO approximation and assumes that the electrons experience the moving nuclei as a perturbation of the potential, the full Hamiltonian can be approximated by a Taylor expansion with the adiabatic states at equilibrium and the quantized vibrational modes.
This approach is widely used in solid state calculations for modeling electron/phonon transport properties (see :cite:`giustino2017eph` for more discussions).
```

Author: Yeah I agree the intro is too heavy. One thing I'm not sure about this part is that the suggested change also doesn't feel like an overview to a code module.  Maybe we'll want to shrink down or restructure the wording further?

Reviewer: This is the user guide, no? I think it's good to have a bit of theory so that one can understand what the module is meant for.

> PySCF supports first order eph matrix calculation by either Coupled Perturbed Kohn Sham/Hartree Fock (CPKS/CPHF) or finite difference. In periodic system, only FFTDF-based Gamma-point calculation is supported with finite difference. In both cases, a geometrically relaxed structure is required, or the structure instability could lead to imaginary vibrational modes.

Reviewer: coupled perturbed Kohn-Sham/Hartree-Fock
